## Developing intellectual Virtue

 

Aristotle: It is the mark of an educated mind to be able ti entertain a thought without accepting it.

 

Develop skill to argue without being argumentative.

 

## Descartes and Doubt

 

He set out to doubt everything he knew to see what (if anything) was left. 

 

Descartes accepter a number of things as true as a child but later found them to be false. His entire "structure" of knowledge had been build upon such a foundation and the structure crashed as well.

 

## The Cartesian Method 

 

In order to achieve certainty I have to doubt all my believes! 

 

Descartes found something about which not even an evil demons couldn't deceive him: that he was thinking.

 

 

## Socrates method

 

Socrates asks questions that will cause others to take a look in the mirror and critically evaluate their own assumptions, beliefs, values, and actions, and on the basis of independent, realistic criteria that have been found to be reliable guides to truth.

For Socrates, honest self-examination was one of life’s most important tasks.

 

Socratic Suggestion: On important issues, ask yourself the questions Socratic would ask: Are my assumptions on this matter really true? Or am I deluded? What does the evidence say? Are my actions morally right? Or am I only fooling myself? When others make questionable claims or propose questionable courses of action, ask them the same Socratic questions.

 

Two Central Socratic Questions

 

When Socrates is in the midst of serious discussion with someone who is advocating a particular belief, or claiming that a particular action is morally right, Socrates asks two questions:

 

What exactly do you mean by that?

What evidence do you have for your claim?

 

## Applying the Socratic Method to Computer Science

Who is the software for?	This question defines the audience you're building for and helps guide the design.

 

Who is outside of our audience?	Engineers call this a "non-goal" and it defines who the software is not meant to reach.

 

Why are we building this software	This may seem like an odd design question but it can force the team to think about the unique skills, abilities, and resources they bring to the table that will differentiate the software from others.

 

What should the software do/not do?	Similar to the questions about audience, these are high-level goal and non-goal questions that set boundaries for what you want the software to accomplish.

 

Does a program already exist to do this?	This is a great critical question because it calls the whole project into question.

 

What is the simplest design that accomplishes the goals?	This question specifically focuses on design goals and not adding more to the design than is absolutely necessary.

 
