# Programming as Conversation, Part 2!

## Statements Introduction

### Define a Statement Versus an Expression

Expressions always return a value. Statements do not.

```Ruby
#This is an expression:
result = 1 + 1 #=> 2.

#This is a statement:
puts result #=> nil.
```

### Identify the nil Value and Its Purpose

The nil value means "no value." You might recall it is one of the falsey values in Ruby. It is the value that means "nothing." It's not true or false it's the void. It's not 3 and it's also not any other number. It's the lack of the idea of a number. It's not the point on the number line 0 which means "no distance from the 0 point," rather it is the true nothing where the idea of things at all (including Integers, Floats, etc.) does not exist.

```Ruby
if result == 2
  puts "things match"
end
```
You see, the if doesn't have a return value, it structures whether or not the puts expressions will send the String constant expression to the screen.

**At its heart, programming is structuring which expressions get evaluated and in what order that happens to solve problems.**

### Identify Three Core Categories of Code Statements

- **Sequence**: What code runs in what order? We make a sandwich before eating it; likewise, certain evaluations will run before others. How is that order determined?
- **Selection**: Given the default order of sequence, can we deviate from it under certain conditions? How do we do so?
- **Repetition**: Given a need to something until a something is true, or until something has happened a certain number of times, can we change the sequence to make something repeat before moving on?

### Example of Sequence Statement

The sequence statement isn't so much a statement, as an assumption. Ruby, by default, will read our code according to the rules of a default sequence: "every line, top to bottom, left to right as ruled by order of operations."

Like so:
```Ruby
result = 1 + 1
puts result #=> 2
```

### Example of Selection Statement

Sometimes we need to deviate from the default sequence. We might need to select a different path.

```Ruby
favorite_number = 2 * 2 * 2 * 2 * 2 * 2 * 2 * 2
if favorite_number >= 10
  favorite_number = favorite_number + 10
  puts "And now your favorite_number is 10 more!"
end
puts "THE END"
```

### Example of Repetition Statement

Repetition lets us disrupt default flow by repeating. The .times method, which will introduce formally in just a moment, means "do something <value> times." That "something" is held inside a do...end block. Other programming languages like JavaScript like to use curly braces ({}) to set up a "block of stuff to do". Python likes to use an indented line of code and neither {} nor do...end. Ruby prefers do...end.

```Ruby
favorite_number = 2 * 2 * 2 * 2 * 2 * 2 * 2 * 2
10.times do
  favorite_number = favorite_number + 10
end
puts "And now your favorite_number is 10 more! It is #{favorite_number}"
```

## Puts and Prints Statements

### Use puts, print and p statements to send content to the screen

```Ruby
puts "hi"
print "hi"
```

### Use p statements to send content to the screen

When we use puts and print, we are returned nil, or "nothing". If we want to print a value and return it, you should use p:
```Ruby
p "hi"
```
It actually does more than just that -- it's designed for debugging. p is a method that shows a more "raw" version of an object.
Newline (\n) and other "system" characters are normally invisible, but if you want to look for these characters, or you want to make sure some value is correct, then you could use p. Also, you'll notice in the output that the " are not removed when displaying the text in the command line.

### Newline Character \n

```Ruby
puts "hi\nhi"
```

## Default Sequence and Comments

Using SELECTION statements we'll make Ruby "skip" over code if some Boolean evaluation is (or is not) true. Using REPETITION statements, we'll make Ruby "stay put" on one line and do it over and over until some Boolean evaluation is (or is not) true. The only way to make Ruby "not see" a line without a Boolean evaluation at play is to "hide" it from Ruby using a comment.

### Comment Character

We can exclude a line from the default sequence by starting the line with the comment character: #. After Ruby sees a #, it will ignore from the # to the next line.
Comments are primarily used to provide references or explanations about what's going on in code.

## Selection with If...End and Statement Modifie

### Write an if...end Statement

```Ruby
run_code_inside = true
puts "Code before if...end"
if run_code_inside
  puts "code inside"
end
puts "Code after if...end"
```

### Write an if...else...end Statement
```Ruby
chance_of_rain = 0.2
puts "Let's go outside!"
if chance_of_rain > 0.5
  puts "Pack an umbrella!"
else
  puts "Enjoy the fine day!"
end
puts "Oh, and always wear sunscreen!"
```

### Write an if...elsif...else...end Statement
```Ruby
chance_of_rain = 0.2
if chance_of_rain <= 0.25
  puts "Pack a sun shelter!"
elsif (chance_of_rain > 0.25 && chance_of_rain < 0.75)
  puts "Pack an umbrella!"
else
  puts "Stay home and read Hegel."
end
```

### Use Statement Modifiers to Change Default Sequence
Ruby has a useful feature called a statement modifier that allows you to put a conditional at the end of a statement.
```Ruby
puts "You know what year it is??"
this_year = 2019
puts "Hey, it's 2019!" if this_year == 2019
```

We can also use unless in a statement modifier as well.
```Ruby
this_year = Time.now.year
puts "Hey, it's not 2019!" unless this_year == 2019
```

## Variation on If...Elsif...Else: The Case Stat...

### Translate a case statement from if...elsif...else...end
Let's say we have a program that sets a name variable equal to a person's name. Our program needs to execute certain code depending on what that person's name is.
```Ruby
name = "Alice"

if name == "Alice"
  puts "Hello, Alice!"
elsif name == "The White Rabbit"
  puts "Don't be late, White Rabbit"
elsif name == "The Mad Hatter"
  puts "Welcome to the tea party, Mad Hatter"
elsif name == "The Queen of Hearts"
  puts "Please don't chop off my head!"
else
  puts "Whoooo are you?"
end
```

This is a pretty common selection need. It's so standard, that the case statement was created to cut down the typing, but do the same thing. Here it is, but translated:
```Ruby
case name

  when "Alice" # translated: when name == "Alice"
    puts "Hello, Alice!"
  when "The White Rabbit"
    puts "Don't be late, White Rabbit"
  when "The Mad Hatter"
    puts "Welcome to the tea party, Mad Hatter"
  when "The Queen of Hearts"
    puts "Please don't chop off my head!"
  else
    puts "Whoooo are you?"
end
```

For an if with an else and maybe an elsif use an if. For multiple cases, use a case statement.

## Repetition with the While Statement

### Basic while...do...end Structure
Given this definition of while...do...end, any truthy expression will make the loop run forever.

```Ruby
while true do
  puts "say this forever..."
end
```
Remember truthy? Here it is again:

```Ruby
while -1 do # -1 is truthy....
  puts "say this forever..."
end
```
Likewise, falsey is important as well:
```Ruby
while nil do
  puts "I will never run"
end
```

### Terminate a while...do...end Loop Naturally

Most loops aren't meant to run infinitely. There's some condition that they cross, that's captured in the condition expression that tells the while...do...end that it's time is over and it's time to return to the default sequence which will resume after the end.
```Ruby
count = 0 # A bit of data defined outside the loop
while count < 3 do # A Boolean expression using the bit of data
  puts "I am the #{count}, I love to count!" # Work
  count = count + 1 # A bit of work that moves the bit of data closer to being false
end
```

### Use Mutating Assignment Operators (+=, -=, *=, /=)
Let's look back at that previous example to notice how we're moving from a true or truthy statement to a false or falsey statement. With each loop, the following expression is evaluated:

```Ruby
count = count + 1

count += 1 # take the value of count, add one to it and then re-assign that result to count
```

Unsurprisingly -= does the reverse of +=: it does a reduction of the variable's value and re-assigns it to the variable. Multiplication and division are also supported *= and /-. There's even modulo-assignment with %=, should you need it!


### Terminate a while...do...end Loop With break Statement

We can break out of a loop by using the break statement.

In the code below, our general intention is to move through the numbers 0 through 9. That's what the while's condition expression communicates. However, there's a little bit of dynamite inside the code. If we just so happen to hit magic_exit_number we break out of the loop.
```Ruby
magic_exit_number = 7
count = 0
while count < 10 do
  break if count == magic_exit_number
  puts "I am the #{count}, I love to count!" # Work
  count = count + 1
end
```

## Variations on the While...Do...End Loop

### Use Integer.times to Execute a Loop n-times

```Ruby
3.times do
  puts "I ran."
end
```

### Use until to repeat

The repetition statement until is the inverse of a while loop.
```Ruby
counter = 0
until counter == 20
  puts "The current number is less than 20."
  counter += 1
end
```
