# Loops

### The for Loop
Of the loops in JavaScript, the for loop is the most common. The for loop is made up of four statements and has the following structure:
```javascript
for ([initialization]; [condition]; [iteration]) {
  [loopBody];
}
```
- Initialization
An expression (including assignment expressions) or variable declaration. Typically used to initialize a counter variable. This expression may optionally declare new variables with the var keyword
- Condition
An expression evaluated before each loop iteration. If this expression evaluates to true, statement is executed
- Iteration
A statement executed at the end of each iteration. Typically, this will involve incrementing or decrementing a counter, bringing the loop ever closer to its end
- loopBody
Code which runs on every iteration as long as the condition evaluates to true
Use a for loop when you know how many times you want the loop to run (for example, when you have an array of known size).

```javascript
for (var i = 1; i < 100; i++) {
  console.log("Hello World the " + i + " time");
}
```

### The while Loop
The while loop is similar to an if statement, except that its body will keep executing until the condition evaluates to false. It has the following structure:
```javascript
while ([condition]) {
  [loopBody];
}
```
A while loop is best used when we don't know how many times a loop needs to run - that is, the condition is dependent on a dynamic function/return value.
```javascript
function maybeTrue() {
  return Math.random() >= 0.5; // Returns a random number between 0 (inclusive) and 1 (exclusive)
}

// run until `maybeTrue()` returns `false`
// (so the body of the loop might _never_ run!)
while (maybeTrue()) {
  console.log("And I ran; I ran so far away!");
}
```
But we can also use a while loop in place of a for loop — we just have to remember to change the condition on each pass so that the loop terminates (otherwise it will run forever).

```javascript
let countdown = 100;

while (countdown > 0) {
  console.log(--countdown);
}
```
### The Do-While Loop
The do-while loop is almost exactly the same as the while loop, except for the fact that the loop's body is executed at least once before the condition is tested. Has the following structure:

```javascript
do {
  [loopBody];
} while ([condition]);
```
You will rarely see do-while used since very few situations require a loop that blindly executes at least once.
```javascript
var i = 0;

function incrementVariable() {
  i = i + 1;
  return i;
}

do {
  console.log("doo-bee-doo-bee-doo");
} while (incrementVariable() < 5);
```
Remember how we couldn't be sure with the plain while loop above that the body would run using maybeTrue()? With do, we can be sure that the body will run!
