# Defining Methods

If we created a method to contain this "saying message five times action" we could get rid of some of that repetition.

```ruby
def say_hello_world_five_times
  puts "Hello World!"
  puts "Hello World!"
  puts "Hello World!"
  puts "Hello World!"
  puts "Hello World!"
end

say_hello_world_five_times
# other work
say_hello_world_five_times
```
Now, when we use the word say_hello_world_five_times in our program, it will invoke the method, running the code within the method.

## Define DRY

DRY stand for "Don't Repeat Yourself," a basic principle of software development aimed at reducing repetition of information. Less code is good: It saves time and effort, is easy to maintain, and also reduces the chances of bugs. When we see unsophisticated repetition, we want to reach for a form of abstraction. Creating methods is a common and powerful tool for abstraction.

## Recognize the Structure of a Method

```ruby
def greeting
  puts "Hello World" # Now code the body of the method.
end
```
We've written the method, let's call it. Once you define a method, you can call or execute the method whenever you want by using the method name in your code.

We could write a method to do the work of "say greeting five times: by using sub-methods"

```ruby
def greeting
  puts "Hello World"
end

def say_greeting_five_times
  greeting
  greeting
  greeting
  greeting
  greeting
end

say_greeting_five_times
```

# Methods and Arguments

## Method That Accepts Arguments

For example, if we want to write a method called greeting_a_person that accepts an argument of a person's name, we would do it like this:
```ruby
def greeting_a_person(name)
  puts "Hello #{name}"
end
```
As you can see in the example above, the name parameter now holds a name, which is being passed in as an argument its invocation. Arguments that are passed into methods create new local variables that can be used within the scope of the method. We call these local variables parameters.

This same pattern works for passing in as many arguments as you want by adding a comma (,) between each argument you want to pass in. Let's try creating a method that accepts two arguments: a person's name and their programming language of choice.
```ruby
# method name      first_parameter, second_parameter
def greeting_programmer(name, language)
puts "Hello, #{name}. We heard you are a great #{language} programmer."
end

greeting_programmer("Maria", "Ruby")
# > Hello, Maria. We heard you are a great Ruby programmer.

greeting_programmer("Steven", "Elixir")
# > Hello, Steven. We heard you are a great Elixir programmer.
```

Once you define arguments for a method, they become required when you invoke or call the method. What happens when you don't pass in the required argument? When an argument with a value is not passed in, you get an ArgumentError.

## Difference Between Arguments and Parameters

A parameter is a local variable, specific to the method that the method expects you to pass when you call it. Inside the method, the programming language will let you use that local variable name (the parameter) to "get" the value (the argument) that was assigned to it when you called the method.

An argument is the value you pass to a method when you call the method that is, in turn, assigned to a parameter.

In simpler words, parameters appear in method definitions; arguments appear in method calls. For example:
```Ruby
def greeting(parameter)
  puts "Hello, #{parameter}!"
end

greeting(argument)
```

## Method That Uses Default Arguments

Using a default argument we can provide a default value for name in the event that no argument is provided. Default arguments are included after the parameter name as seen below:
```Ruby
def greeting(name = 'neighbor')
  puts "Hello, #{name}!"
end

greeting
# > Hello, neighbor!

greeting("Steven")
# > Hello, Steven!
```

Default arguments are often used when we're writing a method with multiple parameters, some required, some optional. In the example below, we've modified greeting_programmer so that the name method is required, but the programming language is optional.
```Ruby
# method name      first_parameter, second_parameter
def greeting_programmer(name, language = "computer")
  puts "Hello, #{name}. We heard you are a great #{language} programmer."
end

greeting_programmer("Steven", "Ruby")
# > Hello, Steven. We heard you are a great Ruby programmer.

greeting_programmer("Maria")
# > Hello, Maria. We heard you are a great computer programmer.
```

# Method Return Values

## Identify Implicit Return Values in Ruby Syntax

Ruby uses something called implicit return which means that the last expression in a method's implementation is the return value of the method itself.
```ruby
def a_method(a, b)
  puts "hi"
  a + b
end

a_method(1,2) #=> 3
```

## Recognize the Explicit return Keyword

Speaking of explicit return like in JavaScript (and Java, and Python for that matter!) Ruby does have an explicit return command. Rubyists typically use it to exit early from a method with a specific return value.
```Ruby
def stylish_chef
  best_hairstyle = "Guy Fieri"
  return "Martha Stewart"
  "Guy Fieri"
end
```

The return keyword will disrupt the execution of your method. If you employ it, your method will return whatever you have explicitly told it to (in this case, "Martha Stewart"), and then stop the remainder of the lines won't even be seen!
The explicit use of the return keyword is generally avoided by many Rubyists, but there are instances where you might want to use return instead of relying on implicit returns. What if you decided that an slow calculation could be avoided if a simple condition were true. This pattern is known as a "guard clause" if you want to be very stylish. It helps you avoid an if...else...end conditional.

```Ruby
def get_stock_market_data(date)
  return nil if is_a_weekend?(date)
  # Imagine an expensive, slow calculation hereafter
end
```

# Method Scope

## Global Scope

When we assign a variable, outside of a method, we're defining it in the global scope. So-called global variables in Ruby are accessible from anywhere in the Ruby program. Even inside of a method we can access variables in that scope.

Global variable names start with a dollar sign ($). For example: $global_variable or $GLOBAL_VARIABLE.

## Local Scope

Local variable is "local" to its containing method's scope. It is only visible in this scope. Outside of it, it is unknown.

In Ruby, local variables begin with a lowercase letter or _. They can look like a simple word or snake_cased phrase. A local variable declared in a method cannot be accessed outside of that method.

```Ruby
def my_ruby_method
  puts local_variable
end
```
Ruby will put a local variable in scope whenever it sees it being assigned to something. It doesn't matter whether the code is executed. The moment the Ruby sees an assignment of a local variable, it puts it in scope. Here, we will properly define local_variable and use it:
```Ruby
def my_ruby_method
  local_variable = 'Hello World!'
  puts local_variable
end
my_ruby_method # => Hello World!
```

## Scopes Overlap

```Ruby
$species = "human"

def visit_universal(name)
  visit_wizarding_world(name)
  visit_springfield_usa(name)
end

def visit_wizarding_world(name)
  simple_name = "Hogwart's"
  puts "#{name}, a #{$species}, visits #{simple_name}"
end

def visit_springfield_usa(name)
  simple_name = "the home of 'The Simpsons'"
  puts "#{name}, a #{$species}, visits #{simple_name}"
end

visit_universal("Byron")

# Prints...
# Byron, a human, visits Hogwart's
# Byron, a human, visits the home of 'The Simpsons'
```

The variable $human, a globally-scoped variable, "casts its shadow" into all the local scopes created by by method definitions. But the locally-scoped variables' information cannot be gotten outside of those variables' defining context.
