IRB stands for "Interactive Ruby." It's a Ruby shell or REPL. REPL stands for read–eval–print loop. It is a simple, interactive computer programming environment that takes user inputs (such as, in our case, snippets of Ruby code), evaluates them, and returns the result to the user. IRB is run by your computer's terminal.

- What isn't IRB?

IRB is not a file where you save your work. Any coding you do in the IRB console in your terminal will not get saved anywhere. It only exists temporarily. IRB is for testing, playing, manipulating your code so that you understand it better and solve problems with it.

- How do you use it?

IRB allows you to execute ruby in the terminal. To access IRB, just type irb in the terminal.
IRB allows you to do anything you can do in a Ruby file. For instance, you can do math, get the time by typing Time.now, or print text to the screen.

# Reading Error Messages

Error messages have 3 parts:
```
lib/a_name_error.rb:3:in `<main>': undefined local variable or method `hello_world' for main:Object (NameError)
```

1) The location of the error, the "where".
```
lib/a_name_error.rb:3:in `<main>':
```
lib/a_name_error.rb is the file the error occurred in.
3 is the line of code with the error.
<main> is the scope of the error.

2) The description, the "why".
```
undefined local variable or method `hello_world' for main:Object
```
The interpreter does the best job it can to tell you what it thinks went wrong.

3) The type of error, the "who".
```
(NameError)
```
### Name Errors
NameErrors are caused when a given name is invalid or undefined. Whenever the Ruby interpreter encounters a word it doesn't recognize, it assumes that word is the name of a variable or a method. If that word was never defined as either a variable or a method, it will result in a name error.

### Syntax Errors
Syntax errors are pretty self-explanatory: they're the result of incorrect syntax. Thankfully, they're usually followed by a guess about the location of the error. For instance:
```Ruby
2.times do
  puts "hi"
```
Will result in:
```
2: syntax error, unexpected end-of-input, expecting keyword_end
```

### Type Errors
When you try and do a mathematical operation on two objects of a different type, you will receive a TypeError. For example if you try and add a string to an integer, Ruby will complain.
```Ruby
1 + "1"
```
Will produce the following error:
```
TypeError: String can't be coerced into Fixnum
```

### Division Errors
DivisionErrors are caused when a given number is divided by 0.
