# Introduction to Enumerables

## "Character of Enumerable Methods"

"Enumerate" comes from the Latin root words that mean "according to the number." Ruby "visits" each element or pair "according to the number" of elements or pairs present in the collection. The essential character of all Enumerable methods or "Enumerables" is:

- Given a collection
- Based on the number, visit each one by its number in the series (Latin: ex numero, the source of "enumerate")
- Do some "work" or "test" the elements or pairs in the collection
THEN:
- Accumulate those elements-after-work-was-applied into a new collection
- OR, determine some special value like: maximum, minimum, true if all values were truthy, true if any value was truthy, true if no values were truthy, etc.

## Pseudocode a Real-World Use of Enumerables

PSEUDOCODE: Below we're going to use "pseudocode." It's something that looks a bit like code, but we're not expecting that it would run, it's just a convenient way to express a problem's solution in a way like code, but far less demanding. It's common to find programmers "sketching" a problem or a phenomenon in pseudocode because it's usually shorter to write than English and, once you learn programming, it's a handy way to communicate with other programmers.
```Ruby
while on_the_train
  if i_hear_a_sick_sound
    my_mask_status = true
  end
end
```
If we were to encode this, we might write the (real code, not pseudocode) the method as:
```Ruby
def i_hear_a_sick_sound(passengers_sounds)
  i = 0 # set up a i for the enumeration of the passengers collection
  while i < passengers_sounds.length do # a loop for each passenger
    # Stop enumerating and return true if any passenger is
    # coughing or sneezing
    if (passengers_sounds[i] == "coughing" || passengers_sounds[i] == "sneezing")
      return true
    end
    i += 1
  end
  return false
end

i_hear_a_sick_sound(["coughing", "foo", "bar", "bin", "bat"]) #=> true
i_hear_a_sick_sound(["sneezing", "foo", "bar", "bin", "bat"]) #=> true
i_hear_a_sick_sound([            "foo", "bar", "bin", "bat"]) #=> false
```

## Define map

As mentioned in the "Character of Enumerables," we need to visit each member of a collection. This is common to all Enumerable methods. In the case of map, we're going to produce a new Array after "transforming" or applying "work" to each element. An example would be "multiply each number in this Array [1,2,3] by -1, returning a new Array of the input Array "negative-ized."

Grand Result = [-1, -2, -3]

## Define reduce

As mentioned in the "Character of Enumerables," we need to visit each member of a collection. This is common to all Enumerable methods. In the case of reduce, we're going to accumulate the results of the "work" to produce a new, single value. An example would be "sum up an Array of numbers." You combine each element into the new aggregate total by updating the aggregate by using an expression like total = total + current_element. This updating an aggregator value and returning it at the end is the essence of reduce.
Here's a tabular representation of reduce-ing an Array of [1, 2, 3] with a starting point of 0.
Grand Result = 6
