## Symbolizing Deductive Arguments

The same way like we replace numbers by symbols in mathematical equations we can do it in logic arguments. 

For example:

All humans are rational

All rational things are conscious

Therefore, all humans are conscious

=

Let H stand for human, R stand for rational, and C stand for conscious and write our argument as:

=

All H are R

All R are C

Therefore All H are C

Even if we use different terms it didn't change structure of the argument. Replace H with "haberdashery", R with "ripe" and C with "crazy". We now have:


All haberdashery are ripe

All ripe things are crazy

Therefore all haberdashery are crazy

# Introduction to Operators

## Monadic and Dyadic operators

Monadic operators is simple statement

Dyadic all other operators

 

In computer code simple statements would represent input and operators are function that accepts this inputs. The output will be determined by values of inputs and specific operations of the function.

 

## Negation operator

Negative operators is only Monadic operators. And it's negates true value of simple statements that follows it.  

Symbols = ~

~A

It's not the case that Anna is home

 

## Conjunction

The conjunction operator creates a compound statement such that in order for the whole statement to be true, each simple statement has to be true.

Symbols = & or ·

A&B (A · B)

Anna is home and Bob is home

 

## Disjunction

The disjunction operator creates a compound statement that is true if either simple statement is true but false if both simple statements are false.

Symbols = v

A v B

Anna is home or Bob is home

 

## Conditional

As the name implies, the conditional operator creates a compound statement that sets up a condition for something to be true. If the condition is met, the statement is true.

Symbols = ⊃ or →

A ⊃ B (A → B) or

IF Ann is home THEN Bob is home.

 

statement after If (not includes if) = antecedent 

statement after Then (not includes then) = consequent

 

AND and BUT help us separate the simple statements and help us combine simple statements into a compound statement but we're able to easier manage the truth value of each simple statement.

 

Modern computer systems are Turing machines AND modern computers can process trillions of operations per second BUT the basic operations of computer systems are extremely simple AND modern computer systems transition states from 1 through 4 or on, semi-on, sort-of-on, and off.

  

Modern computer systems are Turing machines (T)

Modern computers can process trillions of operations per second (T)

The basic operations of computer systems are extremely simple (T)

Modern computer systems transition states from 1 through 4: on, semi-on, sort-of-on, and off (F)

Statement 4 is false because a Turing machine just transitions states between 1 and 0.

 

## Necessary and Sufficient conditions

 

Necessary conditions - what must be true

Sufficient conditions - what could be true pr one possible condition that can bring about the consequent.

 

Example: If Alan Turing died in 1954, then he was born in or prior to 1954.

The sufficient condition--the antecedent--is: Alan Turing died in 1954.

 

## Conditionals and truth conditions

 

A conditional is false only if the antecedent is true but the consequent is false. Under all other truth conditions, we say the conditional is true. 

 

Example: 

antecedent is true; consequent is true	If a byte is 8 bits, then a byte is greater than 7 bits - True

antecedent true; consequent false	If byte is 8 bits, then a byte is greater than 9 bits - False

 

## Truth table

Example: p --> (q & [(r v s) & t])

 

p 	q 	r 	s 	t 	 	p 	→ 	(q 	& 	[(r 	v 	s) 	& 	t]) 
T 	F 	F 	T 	T 	 	T 	 	F 	 	F 	 	T 	 	T 
 	 	 	 	 	 	T	 	F	 	 
T	 
 	T
 	 	 	 	 	 	T	 	F	 	 	 
 	T	 
 	 	 	 	 	 	T	 	 
F	 	 
 	 
 
 	 	 	 	 	 	 	F	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
