# Deductive argument

aim to provide conclusion with complete certainty. Conclusion must be true if all premises are true. 

 
Example:

Dinner will be tacos or dinner will be burritos.

It is not the case that dinner will be tacos.

Therefore, it is certain we’ll have burritos for dinner.

 

Indicator words: must, necessarily, certainly, for sure, definitely, and absolutely.

 

## Valid and Invalid Deductive Arguments

To be valid premises have to be related to each other in proper argument form. If I assume that the premises are true, is it possible that the conclusion could be false." If you answer "yes" then the argument is invalid and valid if you answer "no"

 

Note: Deductive arguments with actually false premises can still be valid 

When our a in a valid form and it's premises are true we say our argument is sound. It's possible for an argument to be valid but unsound but not invalid and sound.

 

# Deductive Syllogisms

 

## Mudus Ponens: Mode of putting

If p then q

p

Therefore q

 

## Formal Fallacy: Affirming the Consequent

p --> q

q

Therefore p

 

## Modus Tollens: mode of taking

If p then q

Not q

Therefore not p

 

## Form of Modus Tollens: Reductio ad Absurdum: reduction to the absurd

To prove p

Assume that p is false

from the assumption, derive q

Show q s false due to being absurd

Conclude p must be true

 

## Formal Fallacy: Denying the Antecedent

p --> q

~p

Therefore ~q

 

## Hypothetical Syllogism

If p then q

If q then r

Therefore if p then r

 

Disjunctive Syllogism

p or q

not p

Therefore q
