## Categorical logic was laid down by Aristotle.

 

We can think about categories as about boundaries between things. Some things which is share common attribute are inside the boundary, other things are outside. 

 

Example: We put cats in common category mammals

Premise 1: All cats are mammals 

Premise 2: Some cats have fur 

Conclusion: Therefore some mammals have fur

 

# Aristotle's Ontology

 

Properties - it's a bricks which ontology made from.  Attribute, characteristic or individual aspect of thing. It's a respect in which things are the same or differ.

Simple property cannot be reduced to other more basic properties.

Complex property consist of many properties.

Identity - by establishing criteria of identity, we are able to determine whether two (or more) objects are exactly the same objects or can they be considered as part of the same category.

 

Gottfried Leibniz - Take all properties of two objects end compare them. If there is some (even only one) property is different then two objects are different.

 

Universals and Particulars?

Universals - the form of abstraction of things, that aspect of the particular that each particular shared.

Particulars - individual things (chairs, trees, rocks).

 

## Aristotle's four Causes

Material cause - the "the thing is made up of.

Formal cause - the idea or form of the thing. It's a necessary property.

Efficient cause - that which makes the thing exists.

Final Cause - why the thing exists.

 

## Language of Categorical 

Using these terms, there are four basic patterns or forms that a categorical sentence might follow:

 

State that all the members of one category belong to a second category; for example, “All cats belong to the category of mammals,” or simply, “All cats are mammals.”

 

State that none of one category belong to a second category; for example, “No cats belong to the category of fish,” or simply, “No cats are fish.”

 

State that some members of one category belong to a second category; for example, "Some cats belong to the category of pets," or simply, "Some cats are pets."

 

State that some members of one category do not belong to a second category; for example, "Some cats do not belong to the category of pets," or simply, "Some cats are not pets."

 

Our example of the first pattern is, "All cats are mammals." Aristotle broke this type of categorical sentence down into four parts, named as follows:

The quantifier: All 

The subject term: cats 

The copula: are 

The predicate term: mammals

 

## Quantity and Quality in Categorical Statements

 

Sentences of the form "All S are P" are both universal and affirmative. They are therefore universal affirmative sentences. 

Sentences of the form "No S are P" are both universal and negative. These are universal negative sentences. 

Sentences of the form "Some S are P" are both particular and affirmative. These are particular affirmative sentences. 

Sentences of the form "Some S are not P" are both particular and negative. These are particular negative sentences.

 
