1. Forming a hypothesis
2. Confirmation
3. Determining Cause and Effect
 

Each of these involves a type of inductive reasoning.

 

# Forms of Inductive Reasoning

 

## Arguing by Analogy

 

Monkeys and humans have similar hearts.

Drug X cures heart disease in monkeys.

Therefore, drug X will likely cure heart disease in humans.

 

##Enumerative Induction

 

The dogs barked at 1 a.m. the first night.

The dogs barked at 1:00 a.m. the second night. (and so forth)

Therefore, they will probably bark tonight.

 

## Inference to the Best Explanation

 

Begin with one or more facts in need of explanation.

Critically examine as many initially plausible potential explanations as possible (where a potential explanation is one that, if true, would explain the facts in question, and a plausible explanation is one that is consistent with general background information).

Rank one explanation as the best explanation on the basis of the standard criteria.

Conclude that the explanation ranked as the best explanation is probably true.

 

# The Logic of Science

 

## The Hypothetico-Deductive Method

 

Step 1. Scientists encounter a puzzling phenomenon that needs an explanation.

 

Step 2. Scientists propose a hypothesis that would, if true, explain the phenomenon.

 

Step 3. Scientists ask, If the hypothesis is true, what facts about the world can we expect to observe or otherwise detect with our senses? To answer this question, they derive observational predictions from the hypothesis.

 

Step 4. Scientists test the hypothesis by observing the world to see if the phenomenon predicted will be observed.

 

Step 5. Finally, they accept, reject, or revise the hypothesis on the basis of the test observations.

 

## Confirmation and Disconfirmation

 

The logic of confirmation takes the following form:

 

If the hypothesis is true, then P should be observed.

P is observed.

Therefore the hypothesis is probably true.

 

The logic of disconfirmation takes the following form:

 

If the hypothesis is true, then P should be observed.

P is not observed.

Therefore, the hypothesis is probably not true.

 

## Criteria for selecting the best explanation:

 

internal consistency

external consistency

testability

explanatory scope

explanatory power

simplicity

fruitfulness

conservatism

 

### Mill's Method
